TY  - CONF
T1  - Evaluation of Multi-Radar Multi-Sensor (MRMS) and Stage IV Gauge-adjusted Quantitative Precipitation Estimate (QPE) During Hurricane Harvey
A1  - Gao, S.
A1  - Zhang, J.
A1  - Li, D.
A1  - Jiang, H.
A1  - Fang, N. Z.
JO  - AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts
VL  - 2018
Y1  - 2018/12/1
SP  - NH42A-07
KW  - 1821 Floods
KW  - HYDROLOGYDE: 1932 High-performance computing
KW  - INFORMATICSDE: 4303 Hydrological
KW  - NATURAL HAZARDSDE: 4342 Emergency management
KW  - NATURAL HAZARDS
UR  - https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018AGUFMNH42A..07G
N2  - Radar-based quantitative precipitation estimate (QPE) serves as input
for flood forecasting, and its importance gets magnified during
catastrophic storms, like Hurricane Harvey. The record-shattering
rainfall from Harvey covered vast spatial extents and lasted for a long
5-day period, providing a unique chance for evaluating the radar errors,
especially their spatiotemporal dependence. Using the rainfall data of
Hurricane Harvey, the authors demonstrate a new method for sampling true
rainfall over radar pixels (i.e. spatial reference rainfall) based on
sub-pixel rainfall variability. The new method aims to enlarge sample
size and allow for compressively evaluating the QPE. Two hourly QPE
products, the Next Generation Weather Radar (NEXRAD) stage IV and Multi-
Radar Multi-Sensor (MRMS), are chosen for the evaluation because of
their roles in major flood forecasting activities; and a dense rain
gauge network covering the whole Harris County, Texas provides the
spatial reference rainfall in this analysis. Based on Hurricane Harvey
and two other flood-inducing storms in Harris County, the stage IV and
MRMS respectively overestimate and underestimate the total rainfall by a
small factor, while both QPEs tend to overestimate very light
precipitation. In addition, spatial correlation of radar errors from
both QPEs can be described as powered exponential functions of inter-
pixel distance. This study also includes hydrologic simulation for an
urban watershed, which indicates the importance of both accuracy and
spatial resolution of QPE in representing mean areal precipitation (MAP)
over catchments. <P />
ER  -  


